(docs): add documentation on visual testing (#11906)
webdriverio/webdriverio: website/docs/VisualTesting.md

---
id: visual-testing
title: Visual Testing
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

## What can it do?

_wdio-image-comparison-service_ is a lightweight _WebdriverIO_ service for browsers / mobile browsers / hybrid apps to do image comparisons on screens, elements or full-page screens.

You can:

-   save or compare screens/elements/full-page screens against a baseline
-   automatically create a baseline when no baseline is there
-   block out custom regions and even automatically exclude a status and or toolbars (mobile only) during a comparison
-   increase the element dimensions screenshots
-   use different comparison methods
-   We now support Puppeteer with WebdriverIO
-   You can now verify how your website will support tabbing with your keyboard, see also here @TODO
-   and much more, see the options here @TODO

> The module is now based on the power of the new [`webdriver-image-comparison`](https://github.com/wswebcreation/webdriver-image-comparison) module. This is a lightweight module to retrieve the needed data and screenshots for all browsers/devices.
> The comparison power comes from [ResembleJS](https://github.com/Huddle/Resemble.js). If you want to compare images online you can check the [online tool](http://rsmbl.github.io/Resemble.js/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The service is a lightweight module to retrieve the needed data and screenshots for all browsers/devices. The comparison power comes from [ResembleJS](https://github.com/Huddle/Resemble.js). If you want to compare images online you can check the [online tool](http://rsmbl.github.io/Resemble.js/).
```

                savePerInstance: true,
                autoSaveBaseline: true,
                blockOutStatusBar: true,
                blockOutToolBar: true,
                // NOTE: When you are testing a hybrid app please use this setting
                isHybridApp: true,
                // Options for the tabbing image
                tabbableOptions: {
                    circle: {
                        size: 18,
                        fontSize: 18,
                        // ...
                    },
                    line: {
                        color: "#ff221a", // hex-code or for example words like `red|black|green`
                        width: 3,
                    },
                },
                // ... more options
            },
        ],
    ],
    // ...
};
```

More service options can be found [here](./service-options).

### WebdriverIO MultiRemote

We also support [MultiRemote](https://webdriver.io/docs/multiremote/). To make this work properly make sure that you add `wdio-ics:options` to your
capabilities as you can see below. This will make sure that each screenshot will have its own unique name.

> [Writing your tests](./visual-testing/writing-tests) will not be any different in comparison to using the [TestRunner](https://webdriver.io/docs/testrunner)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Writing your tests](./visual-testing/writing-tests) will not be any different in comparison to using the [testrunner](https://webdriver.io/docs/testrunner)
```

            },
        },
    },
};
```

### Running Programmatically

Here is a minimal example of how to use `wdio-image-comparison-service` via `remote` options

```js
import { remote } from "webdriverio";

import WdioImageComparisonService from "wdio-image-comparison-service";

let wdioImageComparisonService = new WdioImageComparisonService({});

async function main() {
    const browser = await remote({
        logLevel: "silent",
        capabilities: {
            browserName: "chrome",
        },
    });

    wdioImageComparisonService.defaultOptions.autoSaveBaseline = true;
    browser.defaultOptions = wdioImageComparisonService.defaultOptions;
    browser.folders = wdioImageComparisonService.folders;

    wdioImageComparisonService.before(browser.capabilities);

    await browser.url("https://webdriver.io/");

    // or use this for ONLY saving a screenshot
    await browser.saveFullPageScreen("examplePaged", {});

    // or use this for validating. Both methods don't need to be combined, see the FAQ
    await browser.checkFullPageScreen("examplePaged", {});

    await browser.deleteSession();
}

main().catch(async (e) => {
    console.error(e);
});
```

> ### DEV-TOOLS support
> 
> You can also use the Chrome DevTools as an automation protocol in combination with this module. You don't need to do anything,
> just change `automationProtocol: 'devtools'` in your config.
> More information about how to use the DEV-TOOLS can be found in [this](https://webdriver.io/blog/2019/09/16/devtools.html) blog post.
> 

Reviewer: Let's not encourage users anymore to use this.
```suggestion
```

Author: OK, I'll also remove it from the tests in the repo itself

### Typescript support

We now also support typescript types. Add the following to the `types` in your `tsconfig.json`:

```json
{
    "compilerOptions": {
        "types": ["wdio-image-comparison-service"]
    }
}
```

## System Requirements

> -   [Node.js](#nodejs)
> -   [WebdriverIO](#webdriverio/) V8 or higher
> -   [Node Canvas](#node-canvas)
> 
> ### Node.js
> 
> You’ll need [Node.js](http://nodejs.org) installed.
> 
> -   Install at least v18.x or higher as this is the oldest active LTS version
> -   Only releases that are or will become an LTS release are officially supported
> 
> If Node is not currently installed on your system, we suggest utilizing a tool such as [NVM](https://github.com/creationix/nvm) to assist in managing multiple active Node.js versions.
> 
> ### WebdriverIO
> 
> If you don't have a project, please check the WebdriverIO [Getting Started Docs](https://webdriver.io/docs/gettingstarted) to set up your project.
> 
> ### Node Canvas
> 
> This module relies on [Canvas](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas) which is a canvas implementation for Node.js. It relies on [Cairo](https://cairographics.org/).

Reviewer: Let's simplify this:

```suggestion
Aside from the general [project requirements](/gettingstarted#system-requirements) this module relies on [Canvas](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas) which is a canvas implementation for Node.js. It relies on [Cairo](https://cairographics.org/).
```

By default, binaries for macOS, Linux and Windows will be downloaded during your project's `npm install`. If you don't have a supported OS or processor architecture, the module will be compiled on your system. This requires several dependencies, including Cairo and Pango.

For detailed installation information, see the [node-canvas wiki](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas/wiki/_pages). One-line installation instructions for common OSes are below. Note that libgif/giflib, librsvg and libjpeg are optional and only required if you need GIF, SVG and JPEG support, respectively. Cairo v1.10.0 or later is required.

<Tabs
defaultValue="osx"
values={[

> {label: 'OS X', value: 'osx'},
> {label: 'Ubuntu X', value: 'ubuntu'},
> {label: 'Fedora X', value: 'fedora'},
> {label: 'Solaris X', value: 'solaris'},
> {label: 'OpenBSD X', value: 'openbsd'},
> {label: 'Window X', value: 'windows'},
> {label: 'Others X', value: 'others'},

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{label: 'OS', value: 'osx'},
{label: 'Ubuntu', value: 'ubuntu'},
{label: 'Fedora', value: 'fedora'},
{label: 'Solaris', value: 'solaris'},
{label: 'OpenBSD', value: 'openbsd'},
{label: 'Window', value: 'windows'},
{label: 'Others', value: 'others'},
```
